[red-knot] Move `UnionBuilder` tests to Markdown (#15374)
astral-sh/ruff: crates/red_knot_python_semantic/resources/mdtest/union_types.md

# Union types

This test suite covers certain basic properties and simplification strategies for union types.

## Basic unions

```py
from typing import Literal

def _(u1: int | str, u2: Literal[0] | Literal[1]) -> None:
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: int | str
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: Literal[0, 1]
```

## Duplicate elements are collapsed

```py
def _(u1: int | int | str, u2: int | str | int) -> None:
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: int | str
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: int | str
```

> ## `Never` is removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `Never` is removed

`Never` is an empty set, a type with no inhabitants. Its presence in a union is always redundant, and so we eagerly simplify it away:
```

```py

> from typing_extensions import Never

Reviewer: is it worth also including an example using `typing.NoReturn`...?

def _(u1: int | Never, u2: int | Never | str) -> None:
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: int
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed:  int | str
```

## Flattening of nested unions

```py
from typing import Literal

def _(
    u1: (int | str) | bytes,
    u2: int | (str | bytes),
    u3: int | (str | (bytes | complex)),
) -> None:
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: int | str | bytes
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: int | str | bytes
    reveal_type(u3)  # revealed: int | str | bytes | complex
```

## Simplification using subtyping

> Elements that are subtypes of other elements can be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type `S | T` can be simplified to `T` if `S` is a subtype of `T`:
```

```py
from typing_extensions import Literal, LiteralString

> def _(
>     u1: str | LiteralString, u2: LiteralString | str, u3: Literal["a"] | str | LiteralString, u4: str | bytes | LiteralString
> ) -> None:
>     reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: str
>     reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: str
>     reveal_type(u3)  # revealed: str
>     reveal_type(u4)  # revealed: str | bytes

Author: These tests would be more readable if we had something like C++'s `std::declval<T>()` (https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/issues/13789) which pretends to create a value of type `T`. Using `knot_extensions`, we could now easily implement a function like the following (using PEP 747 language):
```py
def value_of[T](typ: TypeForm[T]) -> T: ...
```
that would allow us to write these tests in a single line without having to introduce dummy parameters and without having the definitions a few lines away from the assertions:

```suggestion
reveal_type(value_of(str | LiteralString))  # revealed: str
reveal_type(value_of(LiteralString | str))  # revealed: str
reveal_type(value_of(Literal["a"] | str | LiteralString))  # revealed: str
reveal_type(value_of(str | bytes | LiteralString))  # revealed: str | bytes
```
A disadvantage of this approach would be that it makes more of these tests dependent on `knot_extensions`. @AlexWaygood is still "a little sceptical" about this idea, so I kept the usual strategy of using function parameters.

Reviewer 2: Interestingly, `typing.cast` (with a dummy second argument), is effectively the `value_of` function. I wouldn't be opposed to adding `value_of` as a variant that doesn't require the dummy second argument, at the same time we add `typing.cast`. But I don't feel strongly either way, I think the function arguments are reasonable too.

Author: > Also, could consider `reveal_type_of_value(...)` function which has same logic of `reveal_type` that doesn't need to explicitly import?

More like `reveal_type_of_type_expression` or something like that, but yes — that's a good idea! We could take it one step further and implement the analog to `assert_type` on that level. Basically `assert_equal_type(type1, type2)`.

And now that I write it out, I realize that we sort-of already have this in `knot_extensions`. We can write
```py
static_assert(is_equivalent_to(str | LiteralString, str))
```
Now that only works for fully static types, but once we have `is_gradual_equivalent_to`, that would be a (slightly more verbose) alternative to `assert_equal_type`:
```py
static_assert(is_gradual_equivalent_to(Unknown | Unknown | str, Unknown | str))
```

Author: > Interestingly, `typing.cast` (with a dummy second argument), is effectively the `value_of` function.

*"It's like `typing.cast`, just without having a value in the first place!"* is exactly how I pitched it to Alex, and he *still* didn't want it :smile:

```

## Boolean literals

> The Boolean literals `True` and `False` can be unioned to create `bool`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The union `Literal[True] | Literal[False]` is exactly equivalent to `bool`:
```

```py
from typing import Literal

def _(

>     u1: Literal[True] | Literal[False],
>     u2: bool | Literal[True],
>     u3: Literal[True] | bool,
>     u4: Literal[True] | Literal[True] | Literal[17],
>     u5: Literal[True] | Literal[True] | Literal[False] | Literal[17],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    u1: Literal[True, False],
    u2: bool | Literal[True],
    u3: Literal[True] | bool,
    u4: Literal[True] | Literal[True, 17],
    u5: Literal[True, False, True, 17],
```

) -> None:
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: bool
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: bool
    reveal_type(u3)  # revealed: bool
    reveal_type(u4)  # revealed: Literal[True, 17]
    reveal_type(u5)  # revealed: bool | Literal[17]
```

## Do not erase `Unknown`

```py
from knot_extensions import Unknown

def _(u1: Unknown | str, u2: str | Unknown) -> None:
    reveal_type(u2)  # revealed: str | Unknown
    reveal_type(u1)  # revealed: Unknown | str
```

> ## Collapse multiple `Unknown`s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collapse multiple `Unknown`s

Since `Unknown` is a gradual type, it is not a subtype of anything,
but multiple `Unknown`s in a union are still redundant:
```
